Rules&Regulations/Policies
Any act of group fighting, intimidation or violence, damage to property or drunken behavior will be considered as serious. Strict punitive action will be taken against a person involved in such. The student shall not indulge in any immoral act and with dining hall staff, mess committee, hospitality manager, hostel manager, caretaker. It will lead to strict disciplinary action. Your conduct and language should reflect the reputation of your Institute. Incase of illness, sick diet will be provided to you upon written advice from the Institute Medical officer. Note: Please inform the caterer in advance about your so as to serve you better. Any person other than community will not be allowed as Guest or Diner at the hostel mess. Doing so without prior permission will be considered as violation of and and will lead to disciplinary action. Hostel should not take the food outside dining hall. Person undergoing medical treatment can be from this rule with prior approval of institute medical officer. Except mess committee, no one is to enter the kitchen area without the permission of Hospitality Hostel Manager. No student is to share his/her food with one or more under any circumstances. Any kind of must be only through duly filled format available in the dining hall hostel office. The language used for such purpose should be strictly official and the complaint should be objective rather than emotive spreading the issue without following the procedure is not the solution to your so refrain from such. Also, such action will be considered as sufficient grounds to discard your complaint suggestion without giving it any hearing from higher authorities who are supposed to take lunch at mess but due to some reason wish to have their lunch at Silver Spring mess or vice versa need to inform the caterer in writing day prior between only to avoid inconvenience. Patience needs to be for which are prepared at the time of serving the Dosa. Non high tea will be according to the portion size, will be strictly during Mess only. Any negligence to the above would lead to strict action. With the consent of, the amount will be for up gradation of dining hall. Note: If anyone fails to pay the fine in the time period, he/she may not be allowed to use the dining facility for the period until the are settled. It may be noted that the concerned person will be taken away for this period. The decision regarding on a person is non-negotiable hence no discussion or argument will be entertained. We have read the above and Code of Conduct for Hostel and understood them. We hereby agree to abide by the same. Date: Signature of the Student