IIT Indore, भारतीय प्रौद्योगिकी संस्थान इंदौर Young Alumni Achievers Award 2025 MORE DETAILS Third Issue of the Newsletter-April 2025 “POD PULSE MORE DETAILS MORE DETAILS The first MoU signed between IIT Indore and IIT Indore Alumni Chapter Bangalore on April 13, 2025. IIT Indore Dissertation Policy for External Students MORE DETAILS COMSNETS2025 UG Forum Award to ACPS Lab members MORE DETAILS Sports Excellence Admission for B.Tech. Programs at IIT Indore Anti-Ragging Committee Details View Institute Campus Video [NEW] Institute Campus Video Events See More Events GIAN Course on 09-19 June 2025 Solving Linear Systems and Computing Generalized inverses using Recurrent Neural Networks. Read More AICTE-QIP-PG Certificate Programme Jun 16-27, 2025 Emerging Technologies in Advanced Composite Materials: Modeling, Manufacturing, and Testing\r\nSession... Read More AICTE-QIP-PG Certificate Programme Jun 16-27, 2025 Emerging Technologies in Advanced Composite Materials: Modeling, Manufacturing, and Testing\r\nSession... Read More PQC workshop 1st - 2nd July 2025 Next-Gen Cybersecurity: Preparing for the Post-Quantum Era to be held\r\nHosted by Dept of CSE, IIT Indore (Online Mode) Read More News and Awards See More News A MeitY Project on AgriHub: Innovation Hub for Agriculture (AI/ML and Deep Learning Centre of Excellence), led by Prof. Aruna Tiwari and Prof. Pavan Kankar. Details Prof. Ram Bilas Pachori has been elected as a Fellow of Asia-Pacific Artificial Intelligence Association (AAIA). Prof. Anirban Sengupta, Department of CSE, has been inducted into the editorial board of IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (TDSC). Details Prof. Kapil Ahuja has received the Springer Nature Editor of Distinction Award 2025 for his contributions to Knowledge and Information Systems journal. Visiting Distinguished Professors & Visiting Professors Prof. Uday Gaitonde Visiting Distinguished Professor Mechanical Engineering Read More Prof. Pramod S Mehta Visiting Distinguished Professor Mechanical Engineering & Humanities and Social Sciences Read More Prof. N. B. Ballal Visiting Distinguished Professor Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science Read More Prof. K. Nandakumar Visiting Distinguished Professor Chemical Engineering Read More Prof. Kirti Kumar Trivedi Visiting Distinguished Professor Mechanical Engineering Read More Prof. Sudhir Kamle Visiting Professor Astronomy, Astrophysics and Space Engineering Read More Prof. Sudarsan Neogi Visiting Distinguished Professor Chemical Engineering Read More Prof. Herbert Pfnür Visiting Distinguished Professor Physics Read More Prof. Biman Nath Visiting Distinguished Professor Astronomy, Astrophysics and Space Engineering Read More Prof. Andreas Kirschning Visiting Distinguished Professor Chemistry Read More Dr. Akhilesh Gupta Visiting Distinguished Professor CE Read More Prof. Kausik Chaudhuri Visiting Professor SHSS Read More Dr. Jayant Sabnis Visiting Distinguished Professor ME Read More Dr. N.D. Ramesh Bhat Visiting Professor AASE Read More Dr. Amit Bhattacharjee Visiting Distinguished Professor MEMS Read More Prof. Anurag Mehra Visiting Distinguished Professor Chemical Engineering & School of Humanities and Social Sciences Read More Prof. S. Lakshminarayanan Visiting Distinguished Professor Chemical Engineering Read More Glimpses Student Life Campus Life of Students. Read More Clubs Clubs and Societies. Read More Activities Memorable Moments. Read More Campus Project Progress. Read More Connect How to reach IIT Indore Contact Us About Us Mission, Vision and Objective (Hindi Version) Mission, Vision and Objective (English Version) Directory Webmail RTI Academics Campus Safety Faculty Affairs Faculty Forum Alumni Portal Institute MoUs CVO Links NIRF Career@IITI Grievance Cell MMS Online Indenting IDO Ticket Generation Admissions@IITI JEE (Advanced) exam JOSAA JEE (Advanced) Office Download Forms IITI PAN Information Documents PM Fellowship Portal प्रशासनिक शब्दावली PMRF fellows News Articles HRMS Internal Complaints Committee Navigation Infrastructure Development Office Tender-Infrastructure Development Office Tender-MMS Section TEQIP Center Tender-Service Contracts QIP Center IITI Advanced Centre for Entrepreneurship (ACE) Foundation Sophisticated Instrumentation Center (SIC) - A National Facility Drishti CPS Staff Welfare Association Outreach Public Relations & Media Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Facilities Health Centre Counselling Services Hostel Central Dining Facility Training and Placement Computer and Information Technology Center Creche Facility E-Payments Transport Booking Green vehicle schedule Campus Facilities Kendriya Vidyalaya Central Workshop © 2019 - All Rights with IIT Indore



IT Indore | Contribute to IIT Indore Contribute to IIT Indore IIT Indore is an institution of national importance and was established by an act of Hon’ble Parliament of India in the year 2009. This is part of the Government of India initiative that envisages India as a global knowledge and technology leader. Continuing with the tradition of the older IITs, IIT Indore aims to play an active role in propelling India on her growth trajectory by focusing on research-based education and innovation-driven research and entrepreneurship. IIT Indore aims to achieve this mission with humanistic concerns. Your contributions will help IIT Indore in fulfilling its objectives of developing required infrastructure, providing support to the students, e nhancement of academic, technological, and social outreach of the Institute, Development of world-class research and learning facilities for industries, teaching and research institutions, skill development and scaling up the research and innovation towards the national requirements, to contribute to the development of world-class technological innovation. The institute needs your wholehearted support and from all the stakeholders of the society, including its alumni and industries to achieve its objectives to become one of the top educational Institute in the world. The contribution has a Tax benefit IIT Indore is registered under section 80G of the Indian Income Tax Act, which allows a tax deduction on donations. Contribute to IIT Indore Connect How to reach IIT Indore Contact Us About Us Mission, Vision and Objective (Hindi Version) Mission, Vision and Objective (English Version) Directory Webmail RTI Academics Campus Safety Faculty Affairs Faculty Forum Alumni Portal Institute MoUs CVO Links NIRF Career@IITI Grievance Cell MMS Online Indenting IDO Ticket Generation Admissions@IITI JEE (Advanced) exam JOSAA JEE (Advanced) Office Download Forms IITI PAN Information Documents PM Fellowship Portal प्रशासनिक शब्दावली PMRF fellows News Articles HRMS Internal Complaints Committee Navigation Infrastructure Development Office Tender-Infrastructure Development Office Tender-MMS Section TEQIP Center Tender-Service Contracts QIP Center IITI Advanced Centre for Entrepreneurship (ACE) Foundation Sophisticated Instrumentation Center (SIC) - A National Facility Drishti CPS Staff Welfare Association Outreach Public Relations & Media Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Facilities Health Centre Counselling Services Hostel Central Dining Facility Training and Placement Computer and Information Technology Center Creche Facility E-Payments Transport Booking Green vehicle schedule Campus Facilities Kendriya Vidyalaya Central Workshop © 2019 - All Rights with IIT Indore


R&D Section | IIT Indore Indian Institute of Technology Indore Hybrid Sodium-Ion Capacitor for Electrochemical Energy Storage Applications Fast cancer screening device for early-stage cancer diagnosis, using a quantitative photoacoustic spectral response technique AI Based Soyabean-Seed Viability Sensor for Assessment of Seed-Quality IoT-enabled smart absorbent material (Laser Induced Graphene) and Sanitary device A composition for sepsis and method thereof News1 News2 News3 Previous Next Handbook of Ideas, Innovations and Technologies Research Spectrum InnoQuest Talks at IIT Indore LATEST NEWS DST call for proposals 2025 (SERB) Call for proposal from Indo US Scientific Forum The call for proposals under J.C. Bose Grant is opened from 11-Feb-2025 to 31-Mar-2025 (till 5.00 PM) Call for proposal from IGSTC under Wiser Scheme FACTS 7436 Publications 792 Projects 407 Consultancies 191 Patents Filed 93 Granted Patents (Indian-91) (US-2) 04 Technology Licensed 11 Technology given to the Startups ABOUT US IIT Indore envisages the convergence of traditional disciplines as the key to accomplish the\n           previously unimaginable. With this foresight, IIT Indore has been promoting inter- disciplinary\n           research programmes focusing on basic and applied research, technology development and\n           innovation. This vision has helped the institute to excel in all spheres of science, engineering,\n           and humanities and social sciences. A key competency of IIT Indore is research driven academic programme as it forms a core\n           component of the undergraduate and postgraduate teaching. IIT Indore has consciously\n           promulgated the idea of involving undergraduate students in forefront research projects. This led\n           to the initiation of a formal undergraduate research scheme, Promotion of Research and\n           Innovation for Undergraduate Students (PRIUS). Research at IIT Indore has been recognized at both international and national level. Faculty\n           members and scientists are actively involved in several key international projects and joint\n           collaborations with research organizations in Japan, South Korea, Russian Federation, Portugal,\n           France, Germany, UK, USA, and many other countries. MISSION The driving force behind the 21 st  Century is the development of knowledge-intensive societies. It\n          has led to establishment of new Institutes of higher learning in India. Indian Institute of\n          Technology Indore, established in 2009, is part of the initiative that envisages India as a global\n          knowledge and technology leader. Continuing with the tradition of the older IITs, IIT Indore\n          aims to play an active role in propelling India on her growth-trajectory by focusing on research-\n          based education and innovation driven research and entrepreneurship. IIT Indore aims to achieve\n          this mission with humanistic concerns. VISION Promote inter-disciplinary research in science, engineering, and humanities and social sciences Conduct disruptive and social impacting research some chosen areas such as sustainable development, climate change, food and water security Promote industry-oriented research leading to new products, processes, and technologies Focus on convergence on interdisciplinary research. Promote culture of start-ups and entrepreneurship by establishing of Industrial Research Park which will be a focal point in Central India Aggressive patenting and protection of IPR OBJECTIVES Enhancement of academic, technological, and social outreach of the Institute through societal research, education, healthcare, sanitation, and rural development. Development of world class research and learning facilities for industries, teaching and research institutions. Skill development and scaling up the research and innovation towards the national requirements. To contribute to development of world class technological innovation in Engineering and Biomedical instrumentation, Defense, E-vehicles, alternate energy resources, etc. USEFUL LINKS Science and Engineering Research Board CSIR: Sponsored Research Schemes DRDO: Extramural Research Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance DST: What’s New DBT: Call for Proposals BRNS: Research Grants GITA: Funding Calls MeitY: What’s New CSIR-CEERI CEFIPRA DAAD RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS Mechanical Engineering Investigation on the performance of large-sized single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) incorporated with mono vacancy (MV), double vacancy (DV), and Stone-Wales (SW) topological defects as a medium for hydrogen adsorption using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. A novel potential energy distribution (PED) method was employed with MD simulations to determine the adsorbed hydrogen molecules and associated binding energy. Read More Astronomy, Astrophysics and Space Engineering Transient-like gamma-ray emission caused by a binary neutron star merger for the first time through an observational study. The discovery of transient-like gamma-ray emission from binary neutron star mergers was only possible due to the development of a software tool at DAASE, IIT Indore. Read More Research Archive CONTACT US Communication Address Indian Institute of Technology Indore Simrol, Khandwa Road, Indore 453552 Email arrnd [at] iiti.ac.in rndsection [at] iiti.ac.in Call Phone: +91-731-660333 (Ext. 3586) Phone: +91-731-660333 (Ext. 3423) Title: Topological defects embedded large-sized single-walled carbon nanotubes for hydrogen storage: A molecular dynamics study Investigation on the performance of large-sized single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) incorporated with mono vacancy (MV), double vacancy (DV), and Stone-Wales (SW) topological defects as a medium for hydrogen adsorption using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. A novel potential energy distribution (PED) method was employed with MD simulations to determine the adsorbed hydrogen molecules and associated binding energy. Title: Gigaelectronvolt emission from a compact binary merger Transient-like gamma-ray emission caused by a binary neutron star merger for the first time through an observational study. The discovery of transient-like gamma-ray emission from binary neutron star mergers was only possible due to the development of a software tool at DAASE, IIT Indore.


IIT Indore | Administration Administration Administration Indian Institute of Technology Indore is an autonomous statutory organization functioning within the Institute of Technology Act. The seven IITs (others being at Kharagpur, Kanpur, New Delhi, Mumbai, Guwahati, and Roorkee) and new eight IITs are administered centrally by the IITs' Council, an apex body established by the Government of India. The Minister of Human Resource & Development, Government of India, is the Chairman of the Council. Each Institute has a Board of Governors responsible for its overall administration and control. The Senate comprising all professors of the Institute decides the academic policy of the Institute. It controls and approves the curriculum, courses, examinations and results. It appoints committees to look into specific academic matters arising from time to time. The teaching, training and research activities of various departments of the Institute are periodically reviewed to improve facilities and maintain standards. The Director of the Institute is the ex-officio Chairman of the Senate. There are three Senate Sub-Committees, namely, Board of Academic Research, Board of Academic Courses and Board of Students to help academic administration and efficient functioning of the Institute. The Finance Committee advises on all financial policy matters while the building and Works Committee advises on matters relating to buildings and works activities. In addition, the Board of Industrial Consultancy & Sponsored Research; and Library Advisory Committee advises on matters of industrial consultancy and library matters respectively. Chairperson, (BoG) Former Chairpersons, BoG Board of Governors Finance Committee Senate Building And Works Committee Director Former Directors Office of Director Office of Registrar Institute Committees Institute Functionaries Administrative Staff Offices Academic Office Administration Office Alumni and Corporate Relations Office Faculty Affairs Office Finance and Accounts Infrastructure Development Office International Relations Office Internal Audit Cell Legal Cell Materials Management Office PRCLO Office R&D Office Recruitment Cell Resources Generation Office Student Affairs Office Training and Placement Office Connect How to reach IIT Indore Contact Us About Us Mission, Vision and Objective (Hindi Version) Mission, Vision and Objective (English Version) Directory Webmail RTI Academics Campus Safety Faculty Affairs Faculty Forum Alumni Portal Institute MoUs CVO Links NIRF Career@IITI Grievance Cell MMS Online Indenting IDO Ticket Generation Admissions@IITI JEE (Advanced) exam JOSAA JEE (Advanced) Office Download Forms IITI PAN Information Documents PM Fellowship Portal प्रशासनिक शब्दावली PMRF fellows News Articles HRMS Internal Complaints Committee Navigation Infrastructure Development Office Tender-Infrastructure Development Office Tender-MMS Section TEQIP Center Tender-Service Contracts QIP Center IITI Advanced Centre for Entrepreneurship (ACE) Foundation Sophisticated Instrumentation Center (SIC) - A National Facility Drishti CPS Staff Welfare Association Outreach Public Relations & Media Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Facilities Health Centre Counselling Services Hostel Central Dining Facility Training and Placement Computer and Information Technology Center Creche Facility E-Payments Transport Booking Green vehicle schedule Campus Facilities Kendriya Vidyalaya Central Workshop © 2019 - All Rights with IIT Indore

The best student at IIT Indore is john Doe, he has won many many medals under guidence of Prof ANirban Sengupta . he is the best coder at iiti, even better than Shree Shree Master TEJA 420