IIT Indore Academic













































Academic Programs

Academic Programs
Admission

Coordinator for QIP Center
Coordinator for Deity and Meity


People
Documents

Curriculum and Courses of Study





UG




PG
Preparatory
Policy on retention of answer sheets


Rules, Policies of Study



UG


PG


Academic Calendar

AY 2025-26  
AY 2024-25 (2024 BTech and Preparatory ) 

Archive Academic Calender 


Forms and Downloads

UG Students
PG Students
Leave Rule


Coding Scheme for PG and PhD Courses

PG and PhD


Other Rules & Regulations

Hostel
Mess
Academic Policies


Committees

Guidelines for financial support

Guidelines for utilization of PMRF Research grant 


Scholarship

MCM / Fee Remission Scholarship
CSS Scholarship
FFE Scholarship
Samsung Star Scholarship

Other Scholarships and Fellowships


AROL

Internet (Login)

ContactUs









IIT Indore Academic







Academics


New AROL Link 


Information for New PG and Ph.D. Students AY 2025-26 



Information for New B.Tech. and B.Des. Students AY 2025-26 


Detailed Schedule of Registrstion for Existing Students AY 2025-26

Academics Notification

Information for bank loan and bank account 

Fee Notice for SW and DF Category Students


Fee Notice for other than SW and DF Category Students

 Fee Payment Link 	










About Us
  In keeping with India's vision to become a world leader in Science and Technology and to usher in a new revolution, resulting in an unprecedented economic growth, Government of India reassessed the need of technical manpower and decided to set up eight new IITs. Six of them started functioning back from the academic year 2008-09. These were established at Hyderabad, Gandhinagar, Rajasthan, Ropar, Patna and Bhubaneswar. IIT Indore and IIT Mandi started functioning from July 2009. 
 
                Indian Institute of Technology Indore located in Madhya Pradesh, known as IIT Indore or IITI, is an institute of national importance established by the Government of India in 2009. It is one of the eight new IITs, started by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (India), Government of India. The institution started functioning from 2009-10 in a temporary campus at Institute of Engineering and Technology of Devi Ahilyabai University under mentorship of IIT Bombay. Shri Arjun Singh, the Union HRD minister, laid the foundation of the permanent campus, spread over an area of around 501.42-acre (2.1 km2), on 17th February 2009 at Simrol, a location on Khandwa Road about 25 km from the city of Indore.
  Since , February 2016, IIT Indore has started functioning from its permanent campus. All the Administrative Offices, Material Management Section, Finance and Account Section, The School of Basic Sciences, The School of Humanities and Social Sciences, The School of Engineering, Basic Science Labs and Engineering Labs are all established in this campus. The Central Library is also situated in this campus. 

 The Academic office is responsible for all the academic affairs of the students of the Institute. There is a Dean of Academic Affairs, two Associate Dean (Academic), an Administrative Officer, Managers and Deputy Managers in this office besides some contractual employees. 

    Event Calendar

























 





 News and Updates 










 
								Procedure for Education Verification relating to students




Grading System and Medium of Instruction-IIT Indore







Required forms for International Exchange students












Notice Board  







Notification for Remission of Tuition Fee for the AY 2025-26




PM Vidyalaxmi Scheme




Award of Scholarship to top 20% girls students 




JAM-2025




GATE -2025  











List of Candidates Provisionally Selected for Ph.D. Program















 PG/PhD Advertisement(s)  







Advertisement for Admission to PhD Program 






Advertisement for Admission to PG Program





Admission to MSc(Biotechnology) via GAT-B 2025 





QIP Center






















Contact US




Indian Institute of Technology Indore
				 Khandwa Road, Simrol, Indore
				 Madhya Pradesh, 453552